Welcome, in this video, we're going to become familiar
with the GitHub interface, in particular, our GitHub repository.
When you log in, you'll first land on a page known as your newsfeed page.
This gives you an overview of what's going on in your GitHub account.
On the right hand side, you'll see a list of repos that you have
including all repos, public repos, if you have private repos they would show up here,
sources, and forks when we get to that. Let's keep it on all repos.
We've already tried out the create new repo button, and it's corresponding process.
So, let's dive into one of the existing repos that we've already created;
let's go into "my-website". When you first click on the repository name,
the main page for your repository loads.
This has some basic information about your repository,
including the base folder contain files and folders that are part of your repository.
We have the branch that we're currently on, master.
We have a listing of existing commits. We have our branches tab.
We have releases and our contributors.
On the right hand side, we have a repository menu, which includes
our code, which is what we're currently on, reviewing the source code
files and folders that are part of this repository;
issues, which we will cover later in this course; pull requests;
the wiki; pulse; and graphs. We also have settings that are unique to this repository.
We click on settings, we have our repository name, which we can rename if we want to;
for example, if I don't like the fact that I named this repository "my-website",
I can modify it, in this case I'm just going to call it website, and then click "Rename".
Now, my repository is named just "website". Let's jump back into settings.
We have our default branch, which we will be changing later,
we have other features that are associated with the repository,
we may optionally enable or disable wikis and issues.
And, we can do other things, including stuff that's inside the danger zone.
We can make this repository private if we didn't feel like sharing with the world;
however the way that GitHub works is they actually charge you for private repositories.
That's their particular business model, so I tend to just keep my repositories public.
Also, I have the ability to transfer the repository elsewhere,
which we will cover later, and finally we're able to delete the repository.
Let's go back to the main page for this repository.
By default, if you have a file named "README.md" in a particular folder,
GitHub will render that particular file as a markdown file, which is very handy,
and this is the common pattern for repositories on GitHub.
And finally, in the lower right hand side we have our cloning options.
They're currently set to SSH, but we've also covered HTTPS as well,
and Subversion we're just not going to cover in this course.
We have the option to download this entire repository as a zip file,
which is convenient if you need to give a copy of your source code
to someone else that isn't on GitHub.
And, we have the ability to clone in desktop, which we will cover later in this course.